! This is the work in progress salty version !

No Frills, does what it says on the tin, Network Basics.

Lets get some things out the way

Who am I ?

Just an IT manager with a lot of experience and a lot of niche experience in OT/ICS security.

There are 2 things I'm very aware of : 

1. Those that want the quick and easy win, without spending any time learning. Everything is expected to be handed on a plate. I once put this down to complete and utter lazyness. And in a sense it is, but thats due to technology becoming so simple and pushbutton freindly its turning the world in to drones.

2. Even worse are those that exploit this. Charging ridiculous amounts of money, knowing the same individuals will lap it up, only to be dissapointed when what they purchase is lacking any real content, or containing content that can be easily found with a search engine.

I cant do much about number 1. If you fall into this catergory, I doubt this is for you. I can, for those willing to learn and do research without constantly asking "next question please" do something about the second.

As I said - no frills.

Index :
1. I Want to be a hacker like MR Robot. Teach ME !
2. Fundementals
3. Networking

3.1 IP Address
Subnets
Cidr

3.2 Protocols
DNS
DHCP
ARP
SMB
SMTP
HTTP

3.3 Private / Public

4. Firewalls
5. Network Analysis
6. Wireless Protocols
7. An introduction to ICS and why you should NEVER attempt to hack it 
Shodan
Perdue Model
PLC's
SCADA
MODBUS
HMI - Human Machine Interface
8. CAN Bus
9. Radio Frequencies
10 HMI - USB on steroids

I Want to be a hacker like MR Robot. Teach ME !

Shut up. Take a moment, repeat out loud and Listen to how ridiculous it sounds asking such questions. BTW Mr Robot, whilst rather good in its own right was nothing to do with hacking and everything to do with mental illness.

Now you have 2 options

1. Go away
2. Jump to the next section and start learning the fundementals

Fundementals

The next section covers the bits you should learn before progressing any further. This will give you a strong foundation and understanding before sticking on a guyfawkes mask and pretending your some kind of anoynmous super hacker. It's not over complicated, and you will thank yourself for putting in a little work instead of wasting your time playing fortnite, watching xxxx porn websites and trying to hack into someones private instagram pictures (Im looking at YOU !)


